+++
title = "About Us"

weight = 1
path = "about/"
+++
SkypLabs is an Ireland-based company providing a wide range of IT services
globally. Created in 2021, we have since worked with many different
organisations to help them build and secure their work.

Our expertise comes from people being passionate about science and technology,
dedicating most of their time to improving their skills and understanding of
such complex topics. We strongly believe that technology can be a valuable asset
to rely upon when used correctly. Sadly, a majority of companies use IT
technologies to collect personal data and exploit psychological weaknesses to
make money. This is deeply incompatible with our values, which is why we promote
transparency in our work through the use of free and open-source software as
much as possible. We also encourage our clients to use EU-based service
providers, which offer much better data protection laws thanks to [GDPR][gdpr].

Besides a user-respecting approach of engineering, we are also deeply engaged
against the climate crisis. We prioritise remote work as much as possible and we
would kindly decline any non-critical on-premise business meetings involving
taking a flight. Swag rewards (e.g. t-shirts, hoodies) are also not accepted as
counterparts of bug reports (often the case when participating in bug bounty
programs) or contributions to open-source projects. All our electronic devices
are carefully chosen to last as long as possible and are powered with renewable
electricity.

To help other organisations aligned with our values follow their missions, we
make recurring donations to environment-oriented and privacy-focused
non-profits. Such organisations include [The Ocean Cleanup][the-ocean-cleanup],
[NOYB][noyb] and [Signal][signal].

 [gdpr]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation
 [noyb]: https://noyb.eu/en
 [signal]: https://signal.org/
 [the-ocean-cleanup]: https://theoceancleanup.com/
